Project proposal
================
The mathematician

``` r
library(tidyverse)
library(broom)
library(dplyr)
```

*For instructions on what each section should include, please see the
[project page](https://idsed.digital/assessments/project/#proposal) on
the course website. Remove this text when completing your proposal*.

## 1. Introduction

This data analysis is based on the research project of Dr. George
Kinnear (which is also where we get our data). The data is collected
from an anonymous survey about “beliefs about mathematics” which is done
by students in the School of Mathematics (including both students in the
School of Mathematics or have School of Mathematics as their second
school) of the University of Edinburgh in 2019/20.

Our research aims at investigating the beliefs of students toward
mathematics. There are serveral sub-questions, which include:  
1. How answers are distributed between students in different schools
(e.g. School of Mathematics vs. School of Informatics)?  
2. Are there any correlations between answers (e.g. whether two answers
are more likely to be chosen simultaneously)?  
3. What are the general attitudes of all students toward mathematics?  
4. How is the answers from students differ from expected answers?  
…etc.

There are 2 raw data which is needed to be processed. Each of them
contains different cases and variables.  
1. responses\_joined (Main data to be analysed)  
The cases are surveys filled by each student.There are 677 cases.  
There are 37 variables, these include:  
- `AnonID`: The unique ID generated for each survey filled by student  
- `Date`: The date when student completed the survey  
- `programme_school_name`: The school which the student belong to  
- `gender`: The gender of the student  
- `Q0-Q32`: The answers of student to each question (32 questions in
total and one extra question asking for consent)  
2. maps\_questions\_processed.csv  
Each question would be a case. There are 32 cases in total.  
There are 5 variables in total, they are:  
- `...1`: The ID for each question automatically generated by R  
- `raw`: The raw information of the question, including question number
and text  
- `qnum`: Question number  
- `expected_ans`: Expected answer for the question  
- `qtext`: The descriptive text of the question

## 2. Data

    ## Rows: 677 Columns: 37

    ## ── Column specification ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
    ## Delimiter: ","
    ## chr (37): anon_id, Date, Q0, Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4, Q5, Q6, Q7, Q8, Q9, Q10, Q11, Q...

    ## 
    ## ℹ Use `spec()` to retrieve the full column specification for this data.
    ## ℹ Specify the column types or set `show_col_types = FALSE` to quiet this message.

    ## Rows: 677
    ## Columns: 37
    ## $ anon_id               <chr> "Sf3f9e6e1", "S7e921f9a", "S5e72e6ce", "S5bf47c1…
    ## $ Date                  <chr> "Monday, 25 November 2019, 10:56 AM", "Wednesday…
    ## $ Q0                    <chr> "No, I do not consent", "Yes, I consent", "Yes, …
    ## $ Q1                    <chr> NA, "Disagree", "Neutral", "Disagree", "Strongly…
    ## $ Q2                    <chr> NA, "Strongly Disagree", "Disagree", "Strongly D…
    ## $ Q3                    <chr> NA, "Agree", "Disagree", "Neutral", "Strongly Ag…
    ## $ Q4                    <chr> NA, "Disagree", "Neutral", "Disagree", "Neutral"…
    ## $ Q5                    <chr> NA, "Neutral", "Disagree", "Neutral", "Disagree"…
    ## $ Q6                    <chr> NA, "Disagree", "Agree", "Agree", "Agree", "Agre…
    ## $ Q7                    <chr> NA, "Strongly Disagree", "Disagree", "Disagree",…
    ## $ Q8                    <chr> NA, "Disagree", "Neutral", "Disagree", "Agree", …
    ## $ Q9                    <chr> NA, "Neutral", "Strongly Disagree", "Strongly Di…
    ## $ Q10                   <chr> NA, "Disagree", "Strongly Disagree", "Disagree",…
    ## $ Q11                   <chr> NA, "Agree", "Strongly Agree", "Agree", "Disagre…
    ## $ Q12                   <chr> NA, "Strongly Agree", "Strongly Agree", "Strongl…
    ## $ Q13                   <chr> NA, "Agree", "Agree", "Neutral", "Neutral", "Agr…
    ## $ Q14                   <chr> NA, "Disagree", "Neutral", "Disagree", "Agree", …
    ## $ Q15                   <chr> NA, "Agree", "Agree", "Agree", "Agree", "Strongl…
    ## $ Q16                   <chr> NA, "Neutral", "Disagree", "Disagree", "Agree", …
    ## $ Q17                   <chr> NA, "Disagree", "Disagree", "Disagree", "Agree",…
    ## $ Q18                   <chr> NA, "Strongly Disagree", "Strongly Disagree", "D…
    ## $ Q19                   <chr> NA, "Agree", "Agree", "Agree", "Agree", "Agree",…
    ## $ Q20                   <chr> NA, "Agree", "Agree", "Agree", "Agree", "Agree",…
    ## $ Q21                   <chr> NA, "Agree", "Disagree", "Disagree", "Agree", "D…
    ## $ Q22                   <chr> NA, "Neutral", "Neutral", "Neutral", "Neutral", …
    ## $ Q23                   <chr> NA, "Disagree", "Disagree", "Disagree", "Strongl…
    ## $ Q24                   <chr> NA, "Disagree", "Disagree", "Disagree", "Disagre…
    ## $ Q25                   <chr> NA, "Strongly Agree", "Agree", "Agree", "Neutral…
    ## $ Q26                   <chr> NA, "Strongly Disagree", "Strongly Disagree", "D…
    ## $ Q27                   <chr> NA, "Neutral", "Neutral", "Disagree", "Agree", "…
    ## $ Q28                   <chr> NA, "Disagree", "Strongly Disagree", "Disagree",…
    ## $ Q29                   <chr> NA, "Agree", "Agree", "Agree", "Agree", "Agree",…
    ## $ Q30                   <chr> NA, "Agree", "Disagree", "Disagree", "Neutral", …
    ## $ Q31                   <chr> NA, "Agree", "Disagree", "Agree", "Agree", "Disa…
    ## $ Q32                   <chr> NA, "Disagree", "Disagree", "Strongly Disagree",…
    ## $ programme_school_name <chr> NA, "School of Mathematics", "School of Mathemat…
    ## $ gender                <chr> NA, "F", "F", "M", "M", "F", "F", "M", "M", "M",…

## 3. Data analysis plan

-   Variables: Multiple outcome (y) and predictor (x) variables are
    needed.

-   Exploratory data analysis

1.  Remove data without consent The answer from students who refused to
    give consent will not be collected. Therefore, “NAs” are shown on
    their answers to each question. As a result, we need to remove these
    data, leaving only those with valid answers.

``` r
responses_joined <- responses_joined %>%
  filter(Q0 != "No, I do not consent")
```

<<<<<<< HEAD
2.  Number of agrees for each question It’s good to take a quick look at
    how many agrees are there for each question. This could help us
    judge whether there is any pattern for answers to distribute.
=======
    ## [1] 477

There are 477 unique athletes which means at least some of the athletes
participated in multiple events.

2.  Mean age We can also find the mean age of athletes which could be
    integrated into the answer to question 4.
>>>>>>> 9caad11119dbba2604e18c1552d91ccb679c1dc6

``` r
responses_joined %>%
  pivot_longer(cols = Q0:Q32, names_to = "question", values_to = "answer") %>%
  group_by(question) %>%
  summarise(agrees = sum(answer %in% c("Strongly Agree", "Agree"), na.rm = TRUE)) %>%
  arrange(desc(agrees))
```

    ## # A tibble: 33 × 2
    ##    question agrees
    ##    <chr>     <int>
    ##  1 Q19         543
    ##  2 Q12         490
    ##  3 Q11         480
    ##  4 Q15         446
    ##  5 Q25         446
    ##  6 Q6          426
    ##  7 Q20         387
    ##  8 Q13         337
    ##  9 Q29         185
    ## 10 Q22         135
    ## # … with 23 more rows

3.  Number of students in different schools. By checking the number of
    students in different schools, we are able to get some knowledge on
    the reliability of our results. This is because if a school has a
    very small sample size, then the conclusion about this school
    generated from these samples may not be reliable.

``` r
responses_joined %>%
  group_by(programme_school_name) %>%
  summarise(student_number = n()) %>%
  filter(is.na(programme_school_name) == FALSE) %>%
  arrange(desc(student_number))
```

    ## # A tibble: 16 × 2
    ##    programme_school_name                                  student_number
    ##    <chr>                                                           <int>
    ##  1 School of Informatics                                             254
    ##  2 School of Mathematics                                             149
    ##  3 School of Economics                                                76
    ##  4 School of Physics and Astronomy                                    40
    ##  5 School of Philosophy, Psychology and Language Sciences             26
    ##  6 Business School                                                     4
    ##  7 School of Engineering                                               4
    ##  8 School of Biological Sciences                                       2
    ##  9 School of Chemistry                                                 2
    ## 10 School of Literatures, Languages and Cultures                       2
    ## 11 School of Social and Political Science                              2
    ## 12 College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences                     1
    ## 13 Edinburgh College of Art                                            1
    ## 14 Moray House School of Education and Sport                           1
    ## 15 School of Divinity                                                  1
    ## 16 School of Geosciences                                               1

-   Statistical methods:

Our hypothesized result to question 1 is that students in the School of
Mathematics tend to provide answers that are more close to expected
answers. To make a comparisons between these qualitative answers, we
need to transfer qualitative data to quantitative data (change answers
like “Strongly agree”, “agree” to corresponding marks) and perform
calculation on mean, standard deviation etc in order to get the
distribution of the data.

Our hypothesized result to question 2 is that there exists a positive
correlations between answers to questions measuring “confidence” and
answers to questions measuring “persistence”. In order to analyse the
correlation between answers, we may need to implement some linearity
test and correlation analysis. These may include using linear regression
models and pearson r correlation test dependent on the situation.
Although these contents are not covered yet, with some self-study it’s
possible for us to use them in our data analysis.
